We, the participants of the Free and Open Source Software for Geospatial (FOSS4G) held in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania from 27 to 31 August 2018, as the annual meeting of the Open Source Geospatial Foundation (OSGeo). 

OSGeo advocates the use of Open Source to better serve our field. OSGeo has many members who are also passionate about the importance of the Free and Open approach to more fairly leverage the wealth of geospatial information available today. As such, OSGeo is pleased to be at the forefront of the shift towards open geospatial:

•	Open Data applies the principles of free and open to geospatial data. This is more than publishing information for free access – open data provides a mechanism for participants to contribute change back as equal partners in data collection and review;

•	Open Education applies the principles of open source to the creation of teaching materials allowing organizations to share syllabus materials reducing cost and reaching a wider audience;

•	Open Science combines these ideas to better realize research objectives, by both sharing the data used to support a conclusion, alongside the open source software used for analysis; and,

•	Open Standards promote interoperability between applications, organizations and fields of endeavour. Open standards are a key tool allowing geospatial practitioners to work together, with the added benefit of avoiding technology lock-in.

We recognize the changing nature of our world and the need to foster cooperation within our community, but also outside it. We therefore express our thanks to the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team, United Nations Regional Committee of Global Geospatial Information Management for Africa’s Expert Group on Legal and Policy Arrangements, the World Bank’s Understanding Risk: Tanzania, Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research, the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery for hosting your meetings and summits alongside our open geospatial community.

We note that the global pressures and challenges are immense, and it is the responsibility of all communities to work on their resolution together. We acknowledge that the data and tool demand for the implementation and monitoring of the Sustainable Development Goals are immense and require coordinated efforts towards their attainment and ultimately ensure that no-one is left behind.

We recognize that ensuring no-one is left behind will take efforts in improving inclusivity within our community. These include measures to improve representative across social, cultural, gender, and other under-represented groups. 

To promote and adopt open approaches, we need to converse with others outside our existing community, identify and chart new frontiers, build new collaborations, 

Therefore, we resolve to:
1.	Coordinate and drive forward the diversity and inclusion programs run between the communities participating here to multiply their impact and scale. This will occur virtually under the #diversityandgeo and in meetings on the margins of related meetings from this point forward. We commit to supporting a track at FOSS4G 2019 that focuses on lowering the barriers to entry within our respective communities and work for equality for all;

2.	To map every corner of Africa and all other regions with support of all tools and data; 

3.	Note that documentation is highly valued, but is frequently overlooked, therefore we will support the widening of access to our documentation. This can be achieved through translation of our projects to improve the accessibility and use of tools;

4.	Affirm that to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), there is an urgent need to accelerate the collaboration, coordination and building of public-private partnerships across government sectors, academia, industry, the private sector, and civil society to create and improve data, tools and methodologies to ensure access to reliable, unbiased, accurate, timely, accessible and disaggregated information to inform decision-making, enable action and measure progress, and ensure that everyone is counted;

5.	Appreciate that while the challenges are immense, the geospatial technology, innovation, platforms, data and solutions that are available today, and facilitated by strong and growing public-private partnerships, allow the necessary means to strengthen countries’ geospatial and statistical information capabilities towards integrative national information systems that enable an evolving ‘data ecosystem’ that leverages an accessible and interoperable local to global system-of-systems;
 
6.	Note the importance to support open software, open data, and the expansion of the open agenda across countries, non-governmental organisations, businesses, and other sectors, in collaboration with all actors to drive the global outreach of geography, maps – building “Geo for All” and working together to leave no-one behind.


